== oozakazoo - Complex Linked Lists 

This simple list api seeks to understand the performance implications of implementing a social graph in various ways. The intent here is to try out a variety of sql and non-sql storage schemes to try to understand first hand the problems involved. 

It will provide a simple listing service api to allow applications to manipulate data sets in a general way. Since a graphed set underlies many real world applications, this could be useful. 

We find that lots of the information about real-world contiguous objects is split along lines of artificial categorization - only separate because of the specificity of the application used to view the data. 

Imagine you finally purchase that furry seat cover from an internet retailer. This purchase relates to your bank (debit your credit card), your budget (subtract from the monthly furry item budget category), your friend who recommended the store to you in the first place, your document store (evernote? box? nothing?) that contains the furry seat cover washing instructions, your email, where you received the receipt and shipper tracking number, your calendar where you have the reminder to look outside the front door (because it might rain, and wet furry seat covers are not nice things to have), your notes about phone calls to the store,  and your inquiries to the vendor about why the fur was pink and not purple, notes (voice recordings?) about whether and how the dispute was resolved.... Those tweets I made about how awesome my seat cover made me feel. That article I found about the chemicals in the fur causing skin cancer. That stuff. 

You've done this, right? What innocent purchase doesn't turn in to a data extravaganza? This little thing has it's own complex graph of information. It's probably ok to ignore it, but it is there nonetheless. And who knows? Maybe if it were effortless to keep this stuff, life would seem less confusing, and we could actually become smarter about the every-day little stuff. 

After years of service, it's time to replace that furry seat cover. It would be nice to know what you paid, where you got it, which model you bought, and something about recalling the buying experience to know if you should go back to the same store. But it's been 8 years, and my memory isn't that good. 

Good luck with that. 

The problem is that Real Life is not like the set of discontinuous information store that we build as we live it. In reality, it's a smooth whole, with everything connected. 

How to solve? The challenge is to start thinking more like a human and less like a computer about these things. In the ideal world, I would have a data store (much like a brain) that contained all these bits of information connected to each other in a web.  Ownership of this would be by the individual. Stuff put in here would establish priority (for academic, copyright, and patent purposes), would bequeath to whomever the owner wants to bequeath it to, could be used to reliably sell and transfer ownership of information therein, and would If I tug at part of the web, I can see the stuff it's connected to without having to know the storage mode of the information (was that in my email? the box? my blog? twitter? voicemail?)


Why the hell bother? 

Mainly because I need a project, and I'm obsessed with this. 


== Goals 

This isn't going to solve the problem. In fact, it will be a pretty embarrassingly lame attempt, but it might start to illuminate a way to represent things like this. The real thing would need a few qualities: 

Uniquely identified 'things' that could be represented in any computer system, but which don't lose their identity. 

Ability to have the things in any system while retaining the connections to other things. 

A way for requests to navigate to these things, kind of like the way IP packets find their way on the internets now. 

History of change for each thing.

Established relationship types between things. 

Ability to establish a personal information store (not physical, but a registry of the things I create) that is recognized and protected the same way that something like a corporate entity is protected, with individual rights clearly established for the information. 

Universal timestamps (see priority, above). 


